{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\lang9 1. What is Sustainable Development ?\par
\b0 - The term coined firstly in Stockholmes Conference 1972 organised by United Nations. \par
- development that meets the needs of present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.\par
- The aim of sustainable development is to balance our economic, environmental and social needs, allowing prosperity for now and future generations.\par
\b 2. Explain Polluter Pays Principle ?\par
\b0 It is absolute liability of polluter to not only compensate the victims of pollution but also compensate for restoration of environment degradation\par
under Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), 1972 & 1974\par
Bhopal Gas Leak Tradegy - by the escape of deadly chemical  fumes from the appellant's factory\par
\b 3. Judicial activism & Public Interest Litigation\b0\par
Need \par
- When Legislative machinery fails to \par
update the laws at the  desired speed, and \par
government machinery fails to discharge its functions, \par
- to uphold the values of the democracy\par
\par
Article 32 empowers Supreme Court & Article 226 empowers High Court\par
\b Methods\par
\b0 1. PIL\par
2. Judicial Review\par
3. Constitutional Interpretation\par
4. Supervisory power of the higher courts on the lower courts\par
\par
\b 4. Define Environment under Environment Protection Act\par
\b0 It includes water, air and land and the inter-relationship  which exists among and between water, air and land and human beings , other living creatures, plants, microorganisms\par
\b\par
5. Object of Water Act\par
\b0 - The main objectives of the Water Act are to provide for prevention, control and abatement of water pollution \par
and the maintenance or restoration of the wholesomeness of water.\par
- To provide establishment for Central and State Boards\par
- to provide powers to the such boards\par
\b\par
6. Define Air Pollutants\par
\b0 Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance including noise present in the atmosphere in such a concentration \par
that may or tends to injurious to human beings or other living creatures and plants\par
Examples - SO2, CO, CO2, Radioactive pollutants\par
The Effects of Air Pollution - Lung diseases like Asthma and Cancer\par
\par
\b 7. What are Reserved Forest ? (Section 20 of Indian Forest Act)\par
\b0 - Reserve forests are the most restricted forests and are constituted by the State Government.\par
- In reserved forests, local people are prohibited, unless specifically allowed by a Forest Officer in the course of the settlement.\par
- The Forest Settlement Office is appointed, by the State government, to inquire into and determine the existence, \par
- nature and extent of any rights alleged to exist in favour of any person in or over any land comprising a Reserved forest.\par
\par
\b 8. Define taxidermy\par
\b0 - Taxidermy is the art of preserving an dead animal's body or any body part partly or wholly in the form of trophies, \par
via mounting (over an armature) or stuffing, for the purpose of display or study.\par
- Person who does it is called taxidermist.\par
- Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1872\par
\par
\b 9. What is hazardous waste\par
\b0 - The waste which is physically, chemical, reactive, toxic, flammable, explosive which may likely to cause danger to human health or environment\par
- These wastes are listed in column (3) of Schedule-1 of Hazardous Waste Rules, 1989\par
\par
\b 10. Duties of occupier under biomedical waste\par
\b0 occupiers (one who has administrative control over the health care facilities that is generating biomedical wastes)\par
- Setting up of a barcode system for biomedical waste that is to be sent for treatment or disposal.\par
- Maintenance of biomedical waste register daily and monthly updates on the website either by the operator or occupier \par
and also the maintenance of all the records for operation of hydroclaving/incineration/autoclaving for a period of 5 years.\par
The method i.e. segregation, packaging, transportation, \par
and storage of biomedical wastes has been improved and the waste has been classified into four categories instead of ten for efficacious management.\par
\par
Biomedical wastes are divided into four color category:\par
\par
\b Yellow: \b0 In this category, eight types of waste are categorized- \par
Human anatomical waste, animal anatomical waste, soiled waste, expired or discarded waste, beddings contaminated with blood or body fluid, and microbiology, biotechnology, and other clinical laboratory waste.\par
\par
\b Red:\b0  It includes contaminated waste that is recyclable like waste generated from disposable items such as tubing, bottles, \par
intravenous tubes and sets, urine bags, syringes, and gloves.\par
\par
\b White(Translucent)\b0 : It includes waste sharps including metals (includes used, contaminated and discarded metal sharps)\par
\b\par
Blue:\b0  It includes broken or contaminated or discarded glass and metallic body implants.\par
\par
\b 11. Any 4 prohibited activities in CRZ(Coastal Regulation Zone)\par
\b0 - Setting up new industries and expansion of existing industries, \par
except those directly related to water front or directly needing foreshore facility\par
-  Manufacturing & handling or disposal of hazardous substance as specified in notfification of Ministry of environment and forest\par
- Dumping of any wastes from thermal power stations\par
- Mining of rocks, sands and other materials except those which are available only in CRZ \par
\par
\b 12. National Green Tribunal Act, 2010\par
\b0 - The objective of the NGT Act is to provide effective and expeditious disposal of cases relating to the protection of the environment.\par
- Inspired from Article -21 which is right to healthy environmental\par
- Environment Act, Water Acts, Air Act, Biological diversity Acts are covered under NGT\par
\par
\b 13. What is eco mark\par
\b0 Ecomark is a certification mark issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forest to products conforming to a set of standards aimed at the least impact on the ecosystem.\par
\par
\b Object \par
\b0 - To provide intensives to the manufacturers.\par
- To reduce adverse impact on environment\par
- To improve the quality of environment\par
- To encourage sustainable management of resources\par
\par
\b 14. Explain Ozone depletion\par
\b0 Most atmospheric ozone is concentrated in a layer in the stratosphere, about 15 to 30 km above the Earth's surface.\par
Ozone is a molecule that contains three oxygen atoms. \par
At any given time, ozone molecules are constantly formed and destroyed in the stratosphere\par
Ozone is good at trapping a type of radiation called ultraviolet radiation, or UV light\par
\par
The main cause of ozone depletion and the ozone hole is manufactured chemicals, \par
especially manufactured halocarbon refrigerants, solvents, propellants, \par
and foam- blowing agents (chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), HCFCs, halons)\par
\par
- UVB causes non-melanoma skin cancer and plays a major role in malignant melanoma development\par
\par
\b 15. What is Green House Effect ?\par
\b0 The greenhouse effect is a natural process that warms the Earth's surface. When the Sun's energy reaches the Earth's atmosphere, \par
some of it is reflected back to space and the rest is absorbed and re-radiated by greenhouse gases such as CO2\par
\par
- Due to Green house effect, there is life exists on earth.\par
\par
- The major contributors to the greenhouses gases are factories, automobiles, deforestation, etc. \par
\par
The increased number of factories and automobiles increases the amount of these gases in the atmosphere. The greenhouse gases \par
never let the radiations escape from the earth and increase the surface temperature of the earth. This then leads to global warming.\par
\par
\b 16. Expain 4 Functions of Central Zoo Authority\par
\b0 - Specify the minimum standards for housing, keeping and vetanery care for animals in the Zoo\par
- Recognition & derecognition of zoos\par
- Evaluate & Assess functioning of zoos\par
- Ensure the maintence of books on endangered species\par
- Provide technical assistance to zoos.\par
\par
\b 17. Explain 2 Powers of Air Pollution Control Board\par
\b0 - Power to give directions\par
- Power to declare air pollution areas\par
- Power of entry and inspection\par
- Power to obtain information\par
- Power to take samples from air or emission and procedure to be followed\par
- Restrictions on use of certain industrial plants\par
\par
\b 18. Case Law\par
\b0 - Vellore Citizens Welfare Forum vs Union Of India\par
- Writ Petition under Article 32\par
- The Petition was filed against the water pollution caused due to excessive release of pollutants\par
 by the tanneries and other industries in the State of Tamil Nadu into the river Palar.\par
 \par
 Issue Raised\par
Whether the tanneries should be permitted to keep on working at the expense of the health of individuals and the environment?\par
\par
Decision \par
directed all the Tanneries to deposit a sum of rupees ten thousand in the office of Collector as fine. \par
The Court further directed the State of Tamil Nadu to award \par
Mr M. C. Mehta with a sum of Rupees Fifty thousand as a token of appreciation towards his efforts in protecting the environment.\par
}
 